>> Sreenivasan: THE HEAD OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY-
- SCOTT PRUITT-- HAS LAUNCHED A
FORMAL PROCESS TO REVIEW AND
CHALLENGE MAINSTREAM CLIMATE
SCIENCE.
THE CRITIQUE WILL REPORTEDLY BE
MODELED ON HOW THE U.S. MILITARY
IDENTIFIES BATTLEFIELD
VULNERABILITIES.
EMILY HOLDEN FROM "E AND E"
NEWS'S "CLIMATEWIRE" BROKE THE
STORY ON FRIDAY AND JOINS ME NOW
FROM WASHINGTON TO DISCUSS IT.
SO, EXPLAIN, HOW IS THIS PROCESS
GOING TO WORK?
>> SO WHAT WE KNOW SO FAR IS
ESSENTIALLY THAT ADMINISTRATOR
PRUITT WANTS TO RECRUIT
SCIENTISTS TO WORK ON THIS RED
TEAM, BLUE TEAM TO SORT OF LOOK
AT ANY POTENTIAL VULNERABILITY
OR UNCERTAINTY IN CLIMATE CHANGE
REPORTS.
SO THE RED TEAM WOULD DO THAT,
THE BLUE TEAM WOULD BE THE TEAM
PRODUCING AND DEFENDING THE
REPORTS.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS KIND OF
FLIES IN THE FACE OF
PEER-REVIEWED SCIENTIFIC
JOURNALS AND HOW THEY ACTUALLY
PUT SCIENCE FORWARD.
>> IT DOES, AND THAT'S
ABSOLUTELY WHAT YOU'VE HEARD
FROM THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY IN
RESPONSE TO THIS, THEY'RE SAYING
THIS IS EXACTLY HOW SCIENCE IS
MADE, SO BEFORE WE PUBLISH
ANYTHING ON CLIMATE CHANGE OR
ANY OTHER MATTER WE'VE HAD IT
REVIEWED BY OTHER SCIENTISTS WHO
HAVE LOOKED TO SEE THAT WE'VE
DONE EVERYTHING CORRECTLY AND
THAT WE'VE COME TO THE CORRECT
CONCLUSIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
FACT THAT THE OVERWHELMING
MAJORITY OF CLIMATE SCIENTISTS
SAY THAT THIS IS REALLY NOT UP
FOR DISPUTE?
SO IF YOU WANTED TO DO THIS RED
TEAM BLUE TEAM, WOULD IT BE RED
TEAM THREE AND BLUE TEAM 97?
>> WE DON'T KNOW A LOT ABOUT
WHAT THE SPECIFICS WOULD LOOK
LIKE, IT'S SMALL GROUP OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE DISSENTERS WHO DO NOT
AGREE WITH THE VAST MAJORITY WHO
OF CLIMATE SCIENTISTS WHO SAY
THAT CLIMATE CHANGES HAPPENING
THAT HUMANS ARE A CAUSE, A MAIN
CAUSE, AND THAT ACTION NEEDS TO
BE TAKEN AS SOON AS POSSIBLE TO
TRY TO STALL CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND HOW DID YOU
FIND OUT THIS INFORMATION ON
FRIDAY?
>> I ACTUALLY WAS AT AN EVENT
WHERE THE PRESIDENT WAS SPEAKING
AT THE ENERGY DEPARTMENT
HEADQUARTERS AND HAD A CHAT WITH
BOB MURRAY, WHO'S THE C.E.O.
OF MURRAY ENERGY, ONE OF THE
BIGGEST COAL COMPANIES IN THE
U.S.
AND HE MENTIONED TO ME THAT HE
HAD HAD A MEETING WITH SCOTT
PRUITT THE SAME MORNING AT A
COAL LOBBY BOARD MEETING AND
THAT HE HAD SPOKEN TO HIM ABOUT
THIS ISSUE AND WHAT HE PLANNED
TO DO AND ALSO WHETHER HE PLANS
TO CHALLENGE A LEGAL FINDING
THAT IS THE BASIS FOR U.S.
GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: PUT THIS IN
PERSPECTIVE ON THE OTHER STEPS
THAT SCOTT PRUITT TAKEN WHEN IT
COMES TO CLIMATE SCIENCE.
>> SO, FOR THE BUDGET PROPOSAL
HE HAS CUT PRETTY MUCH ANYTHING
RELATED TO CLIMATE SCIENCE THAT
HIS AGENCY DOES RIGHT NOW.
IT'S UNCLEAR WHETHER CONGRESS
IS GOING TO APPROVE THE NUMBERS
THAT HE AND THE PRESIDENT ARE
LOOKING AT.
BUT ESSENTIALLY HE'S NIXED
ANYTHING THAT WORK ON CLIMATE
SCIENCE WITHIN THE E.P.A.,
HE'S TAKEN EVERYTHING DOWN FROM
THE WEBSITE THAT HE CAN.
SO THAT PART IS NOT A SURPRISE.
HE'S ALREADY EXPRESSED THAT EVEN
THAT HE DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT
CARBON DIOXIDE IS A MAIN CAUSE
OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: EMILY HOLDING
FROM "E AND E" NEWS, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.